It's a family home.
My family home.
I'm afraid that's no longer true.
I'm sorry
things turned out like that...
..but think of it as a fresh start.
I've made a complete mess
of things with Rachel.
I don't know how to fix it.
I may not be the best person
to offer advice...
..but don't give up on her, Cadi.
I'm sorry Ifan's dead, I really am.
I had nothing to do with it.
(HANNAH) Sion, is that you?
Tell me.
Who else knew?
I cannot and I will not tell you.
ENGINE ROARS
HE SOBS
CAR HORN
HE SCREAMS
SHE SIGHS
FOOTSTEPS
Caught red-handed.
Want some help with that wine?
Still not sleeping?
No.
You and Rhyds are OK though?
Um, yes.
I've just got to get back
into a routine...
..with Rhyds, Lois and Twm.
I don't know.
It's like I lost my place
when I left.
I'm just trying to find it again.
No, you're doing great.
So...
..are you going to tell me?
How things are with Rachel?
Not great.
I've messed things up I think.
SHE SIGHS
I really miss her.
I never meant to hurt her.
I hadn't realised...
..how much it would hurt me.
You know, Rhydian and I
have always argued.
Always wanted different things.
I remember going to see Dad once,
after an argument...
..and he told me that he and mam
used to argue quite a lot.
I know!
He also said the only thing
you can do...
..is get up again in the morning...
..and choose each other again.
Every day.
If you do that...
..things will work out fine.
Maybe we're just on different paths.
Or maybe that's an excuse?
Saying things like that
to yourself...
..just allows you
to keep doing what you're doing.
It allows Rachel to be a dream.
Thing is, Cads,
dreams can be really cold.
They lead to empty beds and regrets.
Isn't it better to know?
Even if things don't work out...
I'd better go back up.
KISSES HER TENDERLY
I love you.
DOOR OPENS
You shouldn't be in here, Sion.
You disturb the birds.
What are you doing?
The hawk. I told you about it.
I have to get rid of it.
Hannah said that
this is what her dad used to do.
She said it was kinder this way.
I don't know if I can do this, Sion.
Hey... it's OK.
Sometimes, we have to do things
we don't want to do.
But it's for the best...
..and there's no one to blame
for that.
It's just the way it works out
sometimes.
Why did you sleep in the shed?
I was home late.
I didn't want to disturb you.
Where were you last night?
Does it matter?
You're big enough
to look after yourself, aren't you?
Of course.
Are you going to the woods now?
Once I've done this.
Caru ti, Glyn.
You smell! Go and have a shower.
Cadi. Can I have a word?
I wanted to give you this in person.
Your formal transfer notice.
It arrived this morning.
Aren't you going to open it?
I'll do it later.
How would you feel about
being on the interview panel...
..to find your replacement?
Your insight would be invaluable
and I know you want to make sure...
..we find the right partner
for Vaughan.
Yes, if you think it'd help.
Of course.
Thank you.
Hello?
SHE KNOCKS ON THE DOOR
It's Lea.
Hello?
SHE KNOCKS ON THE DOOR
Sorry about yesterday, I just...
..panicked.
No joy?
I don't know.
I was here last night trying to
find something... anything.
I keep trying to
reconfigure the pieces...
..hoping something new comes up.
That's the definition of madness.
Doing the same thing over and over
and hoping for a different result.
Hey! You'd better be nice to me.
Lynn just asked me
to help find your new partner.
Whoever it is,
it can't be worse than the last one!
KNOCK ON WINDOW
Sorry for interrupting.
A body's been found on the estate.
It looks like an assault.
Got the address?
Yes.
I've dispatched a unit to the scene.
Thank you.
Let's go.
DOOR SLAMS SHUT
I'll join you in a minute.
OK.
Ma'am.
Any signs of a forced entry?
No.
Weapon?
Not obvious.
Do you think there's a link
with the Ifan Williams case?
KNOCK ON DOOR
Ma'am. Path's here.
I'll leave you to it.
Hi.
Morning.
What time was it called in?
About an hour ago.
I need you
to clear the scene for me.
He's all yours.
SHE SIGHS
Lea Pryce?
Remember her?
She called it in.
She still lives at the same address.
Small world.
OK, I'll head over there now.
See if you can get a list
of his parishioners.
We should start there.
I'm so sorry
you saw what you saw today.
He came to see me last night.
I didn't even let him in.
I left him standing on the doorstep.
Do you remember what time that was?
Around 10-ish.
And that's the last time
you saw him or heard from him?
I woke up this morning
to this... this mess.
I don't know.
Something just clicked.
I can't do this any more.
I wanted to take him something...
..and promise him I wouldn't keep
tripping myself up any more.
Can you think of anyone
who had a reason to do this to him?
No.
No...
He was a good man.
He was trying to help me.
They want to
kick me out of this house.
I was so angry...
..but not with him.
Lea...
..you couldn't have known
this would happen.
They keep saying
it's just me here now.
It's like they're forcing me out.
Mali.
Dad.
They're what I'm holding on to.
I can cope
if I can feel them around me.
Sometimes...
..I think we confuse places
with people.
Those memories you have
will never be taken away from you.
That's what Father McEwan said.
He was right.
It feels like sometimes death
and these things...
..it's like they follow me around
or I attract them.
No. That's not true.
Father McEwan saw the value in you.
He wanted you to do well.
I didn't deserve it.
What you've got to remember is...
..you went there this morning.
You'd made your decision.
He'd be devastated
if this derailed you.
I'd say it was even more of a reason
to keep going.
PHONE RINGS
Hiya.
(RACHEL) Hey.
Sorry, I had to leave.
It's OK, listen...
I was hoping we could talk.
Actually, it's about the case.
Of course...
So far, everything points to...
..a strangulation.
Bruising to the front of the neck,
broken cartilage.
It's... well, I have to say...
..it's very similar to the injuries
found on Ifan Williams.
Except, in this case, there are
no apparent defensive wounds.
Nothing to suggest he fought back.
He didn't offer any resistance?
It seems not and that's unusual.
I'd expect to see injuries
to the arms and the hands...
..unless the attack
came from behind.
But that's not the case?
The lesions are on the larynx.
His attacker was standing
right in front of him, face to face.
Does that help?
I'm not sure... maybe.
Anyway, I thought you should know.
Thank you. I really appreciate it.
OK... I'd better go.
Rach?
Think about it.
About us talking.
OK.
Come with me.
Where are we going?
As I see it, only one man connects
Ifan Williams and Father McEwan.
Let's see if he'll talk.
SHE KNOCKS ON THE DOOR
Mr O'Connell.
Can we have a word?
Of course.
I'm afraid we've got some bad news.
We found Father McEwan this morning.
Somebody attacked him.
I'm sorry to have to tell you
that he's dead.
No...!
He told us
that you used to attend his church?
Yes.
Can you tell us
where you were last night?
I was here.
A neighbour and I
have been repairing a fence...
..behind the house here.
We worked quite late.
Until the sun went down anyway.
Can your neighbour confirm that?
Yes, of course.
We're looking at
a possible connection...
..to the death of Ifan Williams.
We now have two dead men...
..and both have links to you.
What are you trying to say?
I'm just asking.
Just asking if you can
think of anything...
..that might connect Father McEwan
and Ifan Williams?
Oh, that bloody boy!
That stupid bloody boy!
Mr O'Connell, are you OK?
What happened, Dafydd?
It was years ago...
..when I was on the farm.
Ifan was throwing his weight around
in the village.
Drinking.
There was a group of them.
Up to no good.
Mair would stay up all night...
..hoping he'd come home safe,
in one piece.
He always did, of course...
..with a black eye...
..and that attitude of his.
Dai and Mair went somewhere one day.
They asked me
to keep an eye on things.
I was there late,
about to go home.
I walked into the shed to lock up.
I saw Ifan.
He had a jerrycan.
He stank of petrol.
He was drunk.
Wasn't making much sense.
I told him to get inside the house,
out of the way.
I thought nothing of it...
..until the next day...
..when I heard about the fire...
..and the woman who died.
Why didn't you tell the police?
Why?!
How could I know?
I didn't know for certain.
Ifan carried on
like there was nothing wrong.
How could someone behave like that
if they'd done something so awful?
I walked to the farm a hundred times
to tell his mam and dad...
..but I turned back every time.
So you told the priest?
Father McEwan?
Yes.
I sat there, in confession.
I told him everything...
..and he absolved me.
And that was the end of it?
He told me to leave it behind.
He gave me permission to bury it...
..but...
..it's still here,
eating away at me.
Father McEwan
didn't absolve me of my sins.
He chained them to me.
BANGING ON THE DOOR
(HANNAH) Sion?
I know you're there, Sion.
I've still got my key.
What do you want?
Jesus, Sion, what are you doing?
Sion, you need to tell me
what's going on.
Nothing's going on.
Don't bullshit me.
You told me to stay out of your life
now I need you to stay out of mine.
Are you in trouble?
You need to go.
This isn't like you.
What's happened?
Nothing's fucking happened!
You're the one
who turned up here shouting.
Sion, please, just...
Just shut up!
Where's Glyn?
Out.
Why was the door locked
and you're sitting in the dark?
Will you just fucking go?
No! I won't just fucking go!
I'm sorry.
You can't help me, Han.
You can't.
We can talk about this,
whatever it is.
We can talk about it.
What do you want from me?
Please, Sion.
Sion?
I have to ask you this.
I don't want to but I need to know.
Was it you?
Did you kill that man?
Do you think it was me?
I don't know.
I need you to tell me.
You've changed, Sion.
Have I?
Or have I always been like this
but you refused to see it?
If you've done anything...
..Glyn would...
You'd be leaving him
and he's already lost his mother.
How could you do that to him?
I haven't done anything wrong.
Nothing.
I need you to go.
Now.
And you've got to promise
to never think about us again.
I did it.
It's alright, Glyn.
It had to be done, didn't it?
I saw Hannah.
What did she want?
She was worried about you.
About me.
And she was right.
We need to stick together, don't we?
Ti a fi.
It was for the best, Glyn.
The hawk was a threat, wasn't it?
You fixed the problem.
That's what you do
when you have to look after things.
Are you OK, Sion?
I know it's been difficult...
..but I'm going to fix things.
For both of us.
Cadi?
Hi.
They told me you were
on your way back.
DNA profiling from earlier.
They owed me a rush-order.
You could have phoned.
I wanted to hand it to you.
What's the top line?
The secondary DNA from the priest...
..matches DNA scraped
in the Ifan Williams case.
Confirming the same assailant?
Yes. It's safe to say that.
Thank you.
I should have talked to you.
I screwed up.
Look...
..if moving away is what you need...
..I won't ask you to stay.
I wouldn't do that to you.
I really have to go.
Go on.
Where are we going, Sion?
On an adventure.
OK, this is what we know.
Ifan Williams...
..killed.
Death by asphyxiation.
Farmer.
Deep in debt.
He's in the system.
Petty stuff, going way back.
Teenage troublemaker,
nothing exceptional.
We now know that around this time
there was a terrible tragedy.
A house fire. Arson.
Branwen Thomas. Auxiliary nurse.
Died in the blaze.
Red diesel accelerant.
Impossible to trace.
No clear motive.
No previous threat to life.
The case is unsolved.
Nothing at the time
that would point to...
..Ifan Williams.
Twenty years later...
..and it's a different story.
There was a connection.
Caught in the middle of it is...
..Father McEwan,
found dead this morning.
And just confirmed...
..the same assailant
as Ifan Williams.
Where does this take us now?
Back to our dead nurse...
..and her two sons that survived.
They spent some time
in foster care.
They were nearing adulthood...
..so they got on the housing list.
They'll both be
in their thirties now.
One of the brothers, Glyn Thomas...
..seen in this photo...
..was at the same school and
in the same class as Ifan Williams.
Glyn Thomas and his brother...
..Sion Thomas.
This picture was taken
shortly before Glyn was moved...
..to a special
English medium school.
Sion stayed, so this is our focus.
Their last known address is local.
It might be out of date
but that's where we start.
We were called out to these boys
a few days ago.
Aggro with one of their neighbours.
We need the closest unit
to the house right away.
We'll meet them there.
Police! Open the door!
Police! Stand back from the door.